xxii IN'I'RODUCTION

15. In developing the ethical side of philosophy, Cicero
enunciated in the clearest terms the complete duty of man,
and this he established on the sure basis of sound prin-
ciples. Like nearly all investigators after the time of
Socrates, Cicero refrained from the philosophical puzzles
os the early Ionians, and made no attempt to solve the
problem of the physical universe. Neither did he seek by
merely negative arguments and destructive theories, after
the manner of the Epicureans, to dispel sear of death and
free the human mind from superstition. On the other
hand, by holding up the doctrine of service and exalting
the duty of patriotism, he disclosed in positive terms the
true secret of a useful and happy life. Herein he rendered
practical service to the state3 for the full acceptance and
actual realization of his doctrine would certainly produce
conscientious officials and unselfish citizens. Both in
ancient and modern times literary middlemen have per-
formed a very important part in educating and uplifting
the race. They have brought to the understanding of the
people and impressed upon their minds and hearts great
principles and truths which would otherwise have been
the exclusive possession of the favored few. So Cicero, by
reproducing Greek philosophy in such attractive form and
infusing into it a lifelike reality, won the attention of an
ever widening circle of readers and set before thern ideals
of manhood and duty of the highest type. As models of
literary style, as a history of man's endeavor to find out
his own destinyâ€š in short as a record of human thought,
Cicero's philosophical works made a deep impression in
their own day and have ever since won and steadfastly held
the respect and admiration of men.

